# SignEx
Secure messages through digests and signing.

SignEx can work with any message which has:
- content that can be represented as a binary, such as an HTML body.
- metadata that can be represented as a map, such as HTML headers.

Signing a message consists of two steps

- Generating a digest of the content
- Signing the message metadata which includes the content digest.

### Generating digest

Digests are calculated as the sha256 hashed body content.
This digest is base64 encoded for transport.

Currently SignEx only digests using `SHA-256`.
To support other digest methods in the future a digest identifier is added to the digest
e.g.

```
digest = "SHA-256=" digest_content
digest_content = Base64(SHA-256(content_string))
```

### Signing metadata

Signatures are generated by using a private key to sign a `signing_string` that is generated from the message metadata.
Metadata is any enumerable list of keyvalue pairs where both key and value are castable to binaries.

```elixir
[{"foo" => "value-1"}, {"bar" => "value-2"}]

signing_string = """
foo: value-1\n
bar: value-2\n
"""
```
*Line delimiters shown for clarity*

The signature is sent with additional parameters that allow a receiver to check the signature.

- headers: A list of metadata keys that were uses to build the signing string
- key_id: An opaque string that the receiver uses to identify the correct publich key to check that message is intact
- algorithm: Identify the algorithm used, "rsa-sha512" or "ec-sha512"

## Usage

### Signing generic messages

```elixir
content = "My exiting message!!!"
metadata = %{"my-key" => "my-value"}
{:ok, {metadata_with_digest, signature}} = SignEx.sign(content, metadata, keypair)
true = SignEx.verified?(content, metadata_with_digest, signature, keypair.public_key)
```

## SignEx.HTTP

Would be nice to have a different word for the combination of actions other than sign.
e.g. lock, fossilise!, bond(glue), hallmark, stamp, seal, intact

## Notes
- Adding extra headers does not count as tampering with the message

## How test keys were generated

### EC

* `openssl ecparam -out ec_private_key.pem -name secp521r1 -genkey`
* `openssl ec -in ec_private_key.pem -pubout -out ec_public_key.pem`

### RSA

* `openssl genrsa -out private_key.pem 2048`
* `openssl rsa -in private_key.pem -pubout > public_key.pem`

### Notes

- Hashes and Digests refer to the same process.
  A hash function produces a digest. hash function == digest algorithm
